- Reproduction of class inequality
- Legitimation of  class inequality
- Teaching the skills future capitalist employers need
	- Correspondence Principle 


Marxists follow the systems and ideas put forth by Karl Marx, a philosopher and sociological theorist from the 19th century. His comments on education have influenced current day education and the way that we view structural inequalities within capitalist education systems. Alongside Marx himself, Bowles and Gintis were a major influence on Marxist perspectives of education.
$\qquad$ The first purpose that Marxists argue education serves for capitalists is the reproduction of class inequality. This means that education serves as a method to restrict social mobility and ensure that the bourgeoisie remain the bourgeoisie and the proletariat remain the proletariat; or, in more modern terms, that class hierarchies remain static.  Marxists argue that through a variety of explicit and implicit systems in education, middle and upper class students will attain higher marks than working class students, resulting in working class people remaining in working class jobs, and upholding class hegemony. One of the systems that perpetuates this is the way exams allow for middle class parents to utilise their material capital in order to pay for tutoring, textbooks, and more resources that will enable their children to attain higher marks. Another of these systems is how the curriculum is centred around middle class culture, and therefore allows middle class students to use their cultural capital to attain higher grades. Topics that are important and central to middle class society are viewed as vital in education, whereas topics that are important to the low culture of the working class are regarded as worthless in schooling. This results in a disconnect between working class children and their education, and reinforces class structures in grade attainment. This cultural capital difference is most clear when looking at the topics covered by the current education boards *in* subjects such as sociology; despite worker's unions, sports, and other working class topics being sociologically relevant, they are neglected by the education board in favour of more middle class topics.
$\qquad$ Some ideas in this theory are inherent to the system we live under, and are therefore incredibly difficult to disprove (e.g. the fact that regardless of the school system itself, middle class students will be able to use their material capital to pay for tutoring within capitalist structures), however a point can be argued that inequality within cultural capital is inherent to any education systems, and that in more modern education systems we are seeing the persecution of the bourgeoisie, with many Marxists and left-wing revolutionaries being university-educated academics. This is a strong counter-argument, however does not acknowledge how Marxist views may not have been learned from the institutions in universities, but rather learned through being exposed to Marxist ideals; after all the status-quo is in direct opposition to Marxism. This is also countered by the overwhelming evidence that schools reproduce class inequality with direct correlations between income and grade attainment, and the 1988 Education Act which benefitted the middle classes.
$\qquad$ The second purpose that Marxists argue education serves in capitalist society is the legitimisation of class inequality. This is a key idea as it demonstrates a wider theory of Marxism; the myth of meritocracy. Due to school being a microcosm for wider capitalist society (something which, in general, both functionalists and Marxists agree on), by school perpetuating the idea that the grading system is fair and objective, they are proxy-perpetuating the idea that the class system, which grades people based on their economic worth, is fair and objective. This is disputed by Marxists, who believe that due to ideas of the extraction of surplus labour value and the capitalist mode of production, the capitalist system allows for the bourgeoisie to retain their place at the top of class hegemony and exploit the working class. This has the effect of demonising the working class and halting them from achieving class-consciousness, as they believe that the class system is fair. Marxists argue that class-consciousness will cause the working classes to unionize and revolt against the ruling classes, and this is why the bourgeoisie wishes to legitimise class inequality.
$\qquad$ To evaluate this idea, we can take a look at social mobility, and, although, according to a 2017 UNESCO report and the Global Social Mobility index there appears to be no correlation between social mobility and the percentage of those in higher education in that country, there is a correlation between social mobility and the 2020 Global Citizens for Human Rights ranking of that country's education system. Although it is impossible to control all other variables other than education rates (for example, social mobility also correlated with how robust the welfare system was in that country), these studies do gives us insight into the effectiveness of the meritocratic 'ladder' of education. Alongside this, many functionalists, including Henry Giroux, will say that this is far too deterministic and that not all working class pupils will accept ideas of meritocracy. It is important to note that Neo-Marxists have also observed this rebellion against the myth of meritocracy, as shown by the rebellious 'lads' in Paul Willis' *Learning to Labour*
$\qquad$ Finally, Marxists will argue that the education system teaches the skills future capitalist employers need, and not the skills that the working class will need to begin a left-wing revolution. Bowles and Gintis suggested that there was a correspondence between values learnt within the education system and the way that the workplace operates, this is called The Correspondence Principle. The Correspondence Principle states that each of the four main norms and values of the hidden and explicit curriculum correspond to the norms and values valued by capitalists. First, Bowles and Gintis suggest that the proletariat is trained to be docile and passive; they found that low-grades were associated with creativity and aggression whereas high-grades were associated with obedience. This causes working class people to value being submissive to bosses. The second of these Correspondences is the encouragement of acceptance of systemic hierarchy. In the words of Marxist-Feminist bell hooks writing in her essay *Building a Teaching Community*, "student perception [is] that professors can be and should be dictators". In the current education system, teachers have hegemony in the classroom, mirroring the hegemony that bosses and managers hold in the workplace.  This teaches students to accept hierarchy, which will cause them to submit unquestioningly to their bosses in the future.  The third of these correspondences is the motivation by External Reward. In capitalist society, Marxists argue that work is isolating and done purely for monetary gain, rather than engaged in for fun. This means that within capitalist society, the working class is externally motivated by money, which is a rather sad existence. In school, Marxists argue that children are also externally motivated in order to normalise the misery of capitalism. Instead of money, this external motivation is teacher approval and high grades. The fourth and final Correspondence Principle is the fragmentation of work. This is how ideas are split up at school into different subjects, which relates not only to the separations of means and ends, something which anarcho-Marxists especially have a problem with, but also how labour is divided in the workplace, how the office and the factory are two distinct and different areas of a company. Marxists argue that this is a 'divide-and-conquer tactic' of the ruling class, making it harder for us to unionise and revolt.
$\qquad$ In response to this theory, one could dispute many things, for example, the idea of docile, passive and uncritical workers is disputed by Paul Willis' study of the 'lads' in *Learning to Labour*, which showed that working class boys played an active role in resisting the system. A functionalist may also argue that hierarchy serves a function in society, and that encouraging this hierarchy is actually a positive attribute of Talcott Parson's bridging effect. A functionalist may also that the fragmentation of subjects at school is a positive attribute of the sifting and sorting theory proposed by Davis and Moore, which allows students to fulfil their positive role in society. 
$\qquad$ In conclusion, the Marxists have an incredibly cynical view of the current education system. There are very few, if any, Marxists who will be against the idea of education as a whole, in fact many believe that education on how class hierarchies and capitalism works is essential to the liberation of the masses. Instead, Marxists will argue that the current capitalist education system is a microcosm for wider society and that it serves to divide, antagonise, and minimise the culture of the working class. 




> [!glow-bi-fire] Feeback
> Mark:
> Percent:
> Improvements:
> 	-

