

### Reasons ethnic minorities join subcultures

> Magical solution (Mike Brake) -- escaping their material conditions (Racism)

  

> Status frustration -- being frustrated with your social class so attempting to gain status by deviant activity.

  

> Hybridity - e.g brasian youth cultures

  

> Black students negatively labelled in schools & moral panics led to anti-school subcultures.

---

  

### Reasons young people join extremist groups

 - Counter-culturalism

 - Radicalisation

 - Nationalism 

  

#### Examples:

> Skinheads

  
  
  
  
  

> Othering

> "We build our identity by what we are not; masculinity is defined by a lack of femininity, whiteness is defined by a lack of blackness."

> Skinheads asserted their whiteness by hurling racist language at non-white people

> Hebidge sees skinheads as asserting a specific type of white working-class masculinity.

  

> Rioting

> Rioting is commonly, although not always, 'race-related'

> Rioting is often provoked by white people in black areas - white people marching around chanting racist slogans

> Modood (1997) has pointed out that in many areas of working-class poverty and deprivationl; the poorest communities are foten those of Pakistani and Bamgladeshi origin. THey earn roughly two thirds the average pay of white men.

> Despite this, young white men often seen themselves as victimes.

  

> Cultural Capital

> Being 'good' at a subculture means that you will gain more cultural capital, incentivising you to continue being more extreme in that subculture -- this can lead to radicalistaion for nationalist subcultures.

  

*What is Welsh Nationalism and how is it evident in Welsh Society?*

> Welsh nationalism arose from working class politics before the 1st World War, and is a form of nationalism advocating for a culturally and/or legally independent Wales. Kellas argued that most Welsh nationalism is a form of inclusive social movement that encourages inward migration as long as they accept Welsh identity regardless of their heritage.