
# Hyperpop: How the *car noises* *crash noises* *fart noises* *repeated drum loop* *rewind noise* did we get here?

Hyperpop is a music genre characterised by it's diabetic interpretation of pop; through the use of extreme auto-tune and pitch shift, over-sampling, obnoxious use of effects and highly-electronic composition, it takes aspects and phenomena seen in current popular music and takes it to the extreme. The earliest instances of hyperpop are often attributed to the late great SOPHIE, who, with her single BIPP, found success through this exaggerated style. 
$\quad$ If we look at the origins of the term 'hyperpop', things become harder to trace back.  The first use of it to describe a type of music was in a 1988 article, however it is difficult to relate that back to what we today call hyperpop. Alongside this article, some of the more relevant usages come from the early days of soundcloud and last.fm, where the title 'hyperpop' was often attributed to popular nightcore music on the respective platforms. Another notable early example is in the title of the I-DANCE compilation album "Dancemania Hyper Pop Trance Best Trance Z1/2 Hyper Nonstop Megamix". Although the two instances of the word appearing are seemingly entirely disconnected, the sound remains reminiscent. In this way, the term "hyperpop" had its roots in its etymology itself, being universally understood as an exaggerated version of pop music. 
$\quad$ It is naïve, however, to deny that certain key figures had a role in the development of the genre as we know it today. In particular, the aforementioned SOPHIE alongside A. G.  Cook's music label PC Music helped to give concrete shape to the genre and develop the sound which we now associate with hyperpop. However, these artists and labels did not initially identify themselves as hyperpop creators -- this was something prescribed to them on a later date, but we'll put that on hold for now.
$\quad$Looking at hyperpop on surface level, its both difficult and incredibly obvious to understand its appeal depending on who you are.