# Production Line Mistakes -- Analysing transmisogyny and the male gaze

<br>We live in a transphobic *cistem*. Wow, big shock, I know. But this is to say that most people, while not necessarily actively transphobic, hold or act on transphobic prejudice. This isn't a new revelation by any stretch of the imagination, but is important to note in an age where moral panics have made the system appear to be built for (and in some conspiracy theories, by) trans people. The collection of preconceived notions about trans people that most cis people hold are most evident when you begin to talk about the transphobic system. If one can get someone to talk about or acknowledge trans people (which, in and of itself is a difficult task, as many view this topic as "too political"), you will see a range of answers, from simple and well-meaning misuse of terminology, to trains of thoughts that lead to direct harm.
<br>$\quad$ This leads me on to a conversation I had with a friend of mine recently. I don't remember how the topic came up, but he began talking about which trans people he would view as their preferred gender (for he is the adjudicator of validity, of course). Immediately, the target of this judgement wasn't trans men, but trans women. This isn't uncommon among transphobic rhetoric -- trans women are predatory and need to be *discussed* while trans men are confused or damaged and need to be protected -- we'll revisit this sentiment later, but for now, I listened as he continued his justification. "If they've still got a willy - they're not a woman. If they've not got it, that's fine". Again, I and an abundance of others have come across this kind of statement before, from so-called "transmeds" to political figures trying to appear civil. It's easy to dismiss this statement as pure misunderstanding at first, but when one begins to dig deeper into the implications of the statement, it becomes clear that this form of transphobia is an extension of misogyny. The observer, a man in this (and most other) cases, views the validity of, and therefore the existence of, women based on their own desires. This thought process is evident in the rhetoric used here, but is also part of a wider patriarchal system which places worth on women purely based on how much the male observer desires them. 
<br>$\quad$ In response to this, I began describing the trans experience in a very cis-friendly and rhetorically good, yet ultimately fairly reductive way. "Imagine you had no legs, no torso, no arms, no face. You were just your thoughts. Would this mean you are no longer a man? Or would you be able to tell, solely based on your thoughts, that you were a man?". He, of course, said he would still be a man. After explaining the hypocrisy in his statement and asking him to approach topics such as these with a more open mind, his response began to surprise me. "Well, no, if a trans person$^{[1]}$ was like, amputated and only had a torso, then they would be a woman then. It's just if they had a willy". Now this, at first glance, seems to subvert the view of male gaze and trans women I had described above. In the absence of sexual desire, a male observer is still able to view a woman *as* a woman. But instead of focusing on when the observer *does* view the subject as a woman, let's focus on when they *don't* view the subject as a woman. 
<br>$\quad$ Essentially, the observer in this instance, views anyone with genitalia generally associated with those assigned male at birth as, at least, _not_ a woman. I did not go into in-depth discussion of the gender binary with him, but it is safe to assume, from his other views, that he believes in a rigid gender binary. Are you confused yet? Because I am. To help visualize it I began to draw up a table of binary-compliant possibilities;

|...|Male Genitalia|Female Genitalia|Sexless|
|---|---|---|---|
|Woman|Man|Woman|Woman|
|Man| | | |



_TODO: finish drawing conclusions after getting oppinions on trans men lol_



_TODO: Reading about Sexuality + Disability, referenec reading if relevant etc._
