# Twitter's "Frens"

## Banwave

I recently watched as my "following" count on twitter dropped. Only by a few numbers, but I knew that I had not unfollowed anyone. Upon looking at who was removed, I noticed that multiple of accounts I followed had been suspended for violating Twitter's Terms of Service regarding "Violent or Unsafe" content. This was odd to me -- solely due to the fact that I had never witnessed any overly violent or even explicit content on these pages, only occasional (and obvious) jokes about well known Neo-Nazis and transphobes, all of which were done as a response to a tough situation, rather than as a direct call to action for violence.
This is by no means a first time that a large collection of twitter accounts have been removed from twitter; in fact, they happen so often that the phrase "banwave" was coined in order to describe this phenomenom. Usually, a large amount of inclusive, radical or left wing accoutns will be reported en mass by Nazi or bigot created bots in order to get them removed from the platform. These banwave occasionally happen due to a change to Twitter's rules or a change in how Twitter handles report and result in actual dangerous people being removed from the platform, however this is only very occassionally. Most of the time, the first method described is used.
This was, however the first time that I had witnessed it happen in real time, a few accounts get banned and a large collection of similar accounts begin to go private in order to defend themselves from being banned or reported. New accounts popping up with the caption "rt for moots" in order to get back their old followers. In witnessing it, I began to read the comments and retweets of these different accounts, and noticed one particular reply standing out.

> @PallidHandGhost BAN EVADING

If it wasn't already clear from the user's meessage, `PallidHandGhost` appeared, from their own account, to be one of the perpetrators behind the ban wave. When I clicked to view their posts, I found floods of screenshots, showing "VIOLATION FOUND" notices on reports they had submitted, and a dogwhistle-esque bio reading "Your Skeleton is Male". For those unaware, a common TERF talking point is to tell trans people that, regardless of what gender they identify as now, ultimately their skeleton will be identified as their SAAB. This is obviously not the purpose of archeology, and more importantly, not important to someone who wishes to express their gender identity, but nonetheless remains a promenent rhetort in transphobic communitties.
The fact that one account would be posting their succesfull "takedowns", as if gloating, didn't suprise me, however what did was the incredibly low follow count of this account itself, alongside the fact that many of these tweets seemed to, by the captions, have been manually tweeted. This doesn't neccesitate manual reporting of the accounts, however does show the manual *targetting* of accounts. Something about the account, their follower count, the mild dogwhistle, the gloating, it piquéd my interest, so I began to look further into the account's connections. 

## 'A'

This accounts very first follower, and first follow was an account by the name `Aliahthewhite`. This was, presumably, the main account of `PallidHandGhost`. It had a profile picture of, from what I could tell, a Star Trek Wojack. For those unaware, a Wojack is a kind of reaction image used often by those who would be coloqially called incels, or other bigots. At this point, it has reached a much wider range of people and a lot of regular people use them as reaction images, but the large bigotted fanbase remains and an _obsession_ with these reaction images is often indicative of, well, a weird guy.
From now on, we'll refer to this account as 'A'. 'A' had a number of bot explicit and implicitly bigotted and hateful posts, ranging from basic dogwhistles to unabashedly anti-semitic tropes of Jewish people running the world and "poisoning the blood of whites". 
