>‘New Hollywood films marked a significant stylistic departure from the films of the Classical Hollywood era.’ Compare the two films you have studied in relation to this statement. [40]

  

New Hollywood and Classical Hollywood are fundamentally different, both contextually and structurally, some may argue that these structural and contextual differences have caused significant stylistic departure from the films of Classical Hollywood. Alien (1979) and Vertigo (1958), directed by Ridley Scott and Alfred Hitchcock respectively, are a good example of the stylistic differences between Classical and New Hollywood.

  

One example of these stylistic differences is in the use of high-key and low-key lighting. Vertigo uses a large amount of high-key lighting to light its scenes. This lighting is brighter, warmer and more optimistic than the low-key lighting used throughout Alien. Two scenes that perfectly exemplify this are the investigation scenes in both movies. In Alien, after landing on a foreign planet, part of the crew go off to investigate. This scene uses low-key, cool lighting to build a sense of tension and intrigue. Meanwhile Vertigo uses high-key lighting throughout Scottie's investigation of Madeline, including natural sunlight. This makes Vertigo feel more realistic, and could also represent the illumination Scottie seeks in investigating Madeline.  Contextually, the classical Hollywood era used a lot more natural and high-key lighting because it was cheaper to use natural light as it did not require complex lighting setups, and studios were much more responsible for the productions and limitations than the directors themselves. Contrastingly, the New Hollywood era relies on more cool, LED lights as not only are they cheaper to run than the previously used incandescent lighting, but also give directors more creative control, something which we see more and more of in the New Hollywood era. The reason for this stylistic choice may be put down to auteur instead of era, however, as Alfred Hitchcock was known to use more natural lighting as he did not like the 'gloss' of Hollywood lighting, believing it was a 'hangover' from black and white films.

  

Another example of stylistic differences between New and Old Hollywood is in the use of camera in the cinematography. Vertigo is well-known for its use of the 'dolly zoom' effect, where you dolly towards or away from a subject while zooming in the opposite direction, causing a change in perspective and field of view. This technique was revolutionary for its time and created a sense dizziness and uneasiness. Alien, conversely, opted to use more natural and immersive camera work, recorded by Scott himself. One example of this is during the bell-tower scene in Vertigo and the Alien reveal scene in Alien. In Vertigo, a dolly-zoom shot is used to portray the height and magnitude of the bell-tower, whereas in Alien, multiple close-up shots are used to portray the character's emotion and thoughts throughout the scene. This reflects how Classical Hollywood tended to favour a more polished and controlled portrayal of emotion, whereas New Hollywood tended to favour grittier and more in-depth, relatable emotional exploration. This may be due to the societal context at the time; Classical Hollywood attempted to provide escapism from life, as an economic depression and the Eisenhower Recession were recent in memory, whereas New Hollywood provided directors with more control, and attempted to confront the realities of globalisation and neo-liberalism. It could be argued, however, that Ridley Scott's focus on realism and immersion was more due to the fact that he was previously employed as an advertising director rather than due to the time of filming.

  

Another example of stylistic differences is the use of non-diegetic sounds. Excluding the score of the movie, Vertigo has little to no non-diegetic sounds throughout its scenes, whereas Alien uses constant non-diegetic sounds to epitomize the mood and atmospheres of its scenes. Throughout the film, Alien has a low, thrumming bass underneath all other sounds which creates a sense of tension and a frantic feel, as you are never left to think about the events of the film, and are instead left focusing on the film. Vertigo, although having an excellent score which perfectly portrays its core themes, does not use any other non-diegetic sounds. One example of the non-diegetic sounds within Alien is during the chest-bursting scene. Throughout this scene, a beating heart can be heard in the background. This adds to the tension of the scene, and could represent the rising heartbeats of the crew members as they themselves become more tense. This illustrates how Old Hollywood lacked a use of non-diegetic sound whereas New Hollywood embraced it. In terms of context, this may be due to the fact that Classical Hollywood began at a time when sound was not possible in cinema, with the first talking movie being released in 1927. New Hollywood, however, was seeing constant advances in sound technology, which allowed movies from this era to utilise and experiment with sound, rather than sticking with the status quo. This is especially interesting, as, despite the clear lack of non-diegetic sound in Vertigo, Alfred Hitchcock was actually renowned for his experimental use of sound within cinema.

  

Finally, one last example of stylistic differences is the influence of German Expressionism versus the influence of French New Wave. The Classical Hollywood era and, in particular, Alfred Hitchcock, was majorly influenced by German Expressionism. German Expressionism is often characterised by the use of shape and colour to represent moods and emotions rather than explicitly stating these emotions.